README.md, before:

# Snowflake Procedure Monitor

A Python application that monitors Snowflake executions and sends real-time notifications via Telegram when procedures complete.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
snowflake_procedure_monitor/
├── 📁 src/                          # 🐍 Core Python application code
│   ├── main.py                      # Application entry point
│   ├── monitor.py                   # Core monitoring logic
│   ├── notifications.py             # Telegram notification handling
│   └── __init__.py                  # Package initialization
├── 📁 config/                       # ⚙️ Configuration files
│   ├── config.py                    # Environment variable handling  
│   ├── .env                         # Environment variables (not in git)
│   ├── .env.example                 # Environment variables template
│   └── __init__.py                  # Package initialization
├── 📁 sql/                          # 📊 SQL query files
│   ├── production_query.sql         # Production monitoring query
│   └── test_query.sql               # Test/development query
├── 📁 data/                         # 💾 Database and data files
│   └── procedure_monitor.db         # SQLite tracking database
├── 📁 logs/                         # 📝 Log files
│   └── snowflake_monitor.log        # Application logs
├── 📁 tests/                        # 🧪 Test and utility scripts
│   └── query_tester.py              # Query testing utility
├── 📁 docs/                         # 📚 Documentation
├── run_monitor.py                   # 🎯 Main execution script
├── requirements.txt                 # 📦 Python dependencies
└── README.md                        # 📖 This documentation
```


## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- Snowflake account with appropriate permissions
- Telegram bot token and chat ID

### Setup Steps

1. **Clone or download the project**
   ```bash
   cd snowflake_procedure_monitor
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables**
   ```bash
   # Copy the example file
   copy config\.env.example config\.env
   
   # Edit config\.env with your actual values
   notepad config\.env
   ```

4. **Set up Telegram Bot** (if not done already)
   - Message @BotFather on Telegram
   - Create a new bot with `/newbot`
   - Get your bot token
   - Add the bot to your chat/group and get the chat ID

## Configuration

Edit the `.env` file with your settings:

```env
# Snowflake Configuration
SNOWFLAKE_USER=your_snowflake_username
SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT=your_account.region.cloud
SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD=                              # Only needed if using password authentication
SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE=your_database                 # Database to connect to
SNOWFLAKE_WAREHOUSE=your_warehouse               # Warehouse for connection
SNOWFLAKE_MONITOR_WAREHOUSE=your_warehouse       # Warehouse to monitor for procedures
SNOWFLAKE_AUTHENTICATOR=externalbrowser          # 'externalbrowser' (SSO) or 'snowflake' (password)

# Telegram Configuration
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=your_bot_token_from_botfather
TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID=your_chat_id_or_group_id

# Monitoring Configuration
CHECK_INTERVAL=60                                # Seconds between checks (default: 60, minimum: 60)
RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES=30            # Minutes between RUNNING notifications (default: 30, minimum: 1)
MIN_DURATION_MS=10000                            # Minimum procedure duration to notify in ms (default: 10000 = 10s)

# Query Configuration
QUERY_MODE=production                            # 'production' or 'test'
PROCEDURE_FILTER=CALL %                          # SQL LIKE filter (e.g., 'CALL MYDB.%%P_PROC_%%')
```

### Configuration Variables Reference

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `SNOWFLAKE_USER` | ✅ | - | Snowflake username or email |
| `SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT` | ✅ | - | Snowflake account identifier (e.g., `mycompany.us-east-1.aws`) |
| `SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD` | ❌ | - | Password (only if `SNOWFLAKE_AUTHENTICATOR=snowflake`) |
| `SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE` | ✅ | - | Database to connect to |
| `SNOWFLAKE_WAREHOUSE` | ✅ | - | Warehouse for the connection |
| `SNOWFLAKE_MONITOR_WAREHOUSE` | ✅ | - | Warehouse to monitor for procedure executions |
| `SNOWFLAKE_AUTHENTICATOR` | ❌ | `externalbrowser` | Auth method: `externalbrowser` (SSO) or `snowflake` (password) |
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` | ✅ | - | Telegram bot token from @BotFather |
| `TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID` | ✅ | - | Telegram chat/group ID for notifications |
| `CHECK_INTERVAL` | ❌ | `60` | Seconds between monitoring checks (minimum: 60) |
| `RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES` | ❌ | `30` | Minutes between re-notifications for RUNNING procedures (minimum: 1) |
| `MIN_DURATION_MS` | ❌ | `10000` | Minimum procedure duration (ms) to trigger notification |
| `QUERY_MODE` | ❌ | `production` | Query mode: `production` or `test` |
| `PROCEDURE_FILTER` | ❌ | `CALL %` | SQL LIKE pattern to filter procedures |

### Finding Your Snowflake Account Identifier

Your Snowflake account identifier should be in the format:
- `account_name.region.cloud_provider` (e.g., `mycompany.us-east-1.aws`)
- Check your Snowflake URL or contact your administrator

### Getting Telegram Chat ID

To find your chat ID:
1. Add your bot to the desired chat/group
2. Send a message to the bot
3. Visit: `https://api.telegram.org/bot<YOUR_BOT_TOKEN>/getUpdates`
4. Look for the `chat` -> `id` field in the response

## Usage

### Running the Monitor

```bash
# Run the main monitor
python run_monitor.py

# Alternative: Run from src directory  
cd src
python main.py
```

The monitor will:
1. Test connections to Snowflake and Telegram
2. Start monitoring for completed procedures
3. Send notifications for new procedure completions
4. Log all activities to `logs/snowflake_monitor.log`

### Stopping the Monitor

- Press `Ctrl+C` to gracefully stop the monitor
- The application will clean up connections and exit safely

### Example Notifications

When a stored procedure completes or is running, you'll receive a compact Telegram message:

**Successful completion:**
```
✅ SUCCESS P_DAILY_REPORT
⏱️ 2m 15s | Comp: 1,234ms
```

**Failed procedure:**
```
❌ FAILED P_DATA_LOAD
⏱️ 45s | Comp: 892ms
```

**Running procedure (in progress):**
```
🔄 RUNNING P_LONG_PROCESS
⏱️ 15m 30s | Comp: 2,100ms
```

**Status icons:**
- ✅ SUCCESS - Completed successfully
- ❌ FAILED - Failed execution
- 🔥 FAILED_WITH_ERROR - Failed with error
- 💥 FAILED_WITH_INCIDENT - Failed with incident
- 🔄 RUNNING - Currently executing
- ⏳ QUEUED - Waiting to execute

## Monitoring Logic

### Query Detection

The monitor queries `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.QUERY_HISTORY_BY_WAREHOUSE` and filters procedures based on:

1. **Warehouse**: Only monitors the warehouse specified in `SNOWFLAKE_MONITOR_WAREHOUSE`
2. **Procedure filter**: Matches queries against `PROCEDURE_FILTER` (SQL LIKE pattern)
3. **Status**: Captures `SUCCESS`, `FAILED`, `FAILED_WITH_ERROR`, `FAILED_WITH_INCIDENT`, `RUNNING`, and `QUEUED`
4. **Duration threshold**: Only notifies for procedures exceeding `MIN_DURATION_MS` (except RUNNING/QUEUED)
5. **Time window**: Looks back 2 hours from current time

### Procedure Name Extraction

The application uses a generic regex pattern to extract procedure names from any CALL statement:

```
CALL DATABASE.SCHEMA.PROCEDURE_NAME()  → PROCEDURE_NAME
CALL SCHEMA.PROCEDURE_NAME()           → PROCEDURE_NAME  
CALL PROCEDURE_NAME()                  → PROCEDURE_NAME
```

### RUNNING Procedure Monitoring

- Detects procedures currently executing (status = `RUNNING`)
- Calculates real-time duration using `DATEDIFF(SECOND, START_TIME, CURRENT_TIMESTAMP())`
- **Throttling**: Re-notifies every `RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES` (default: 30 min, minimum: 1 min)
- Prevents notification spam for long-running procedures

### Duplicate Prevention

- Uses **session-based tracking** with SQLite database
- Each monitor session gets a unique ID
- Processed query IDs are stored per session to avoid duplicates
- Old sessions and records are automatically cleaned up after 7 days

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Snowflake Connection Failed**
   - Verify your account identifier format
   - Ensure your user has proper permissions
   - For SSO: Check if external browser authentication is allowed
   - For password auth: Verify `SNOWFLAKE_AUTHENTICATOR=snowflake` and `SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD` are set

2. **No Procedures Detected**
   - Confirm procedures are running on `SNOWFLAKE_MONITOR_WAREHOUSE`
   - Check `PROCEDURE_FILTER` matches your CALL statements
   - Verify `MIN_DURATION_MS` isn't filtering out short procedures
   - Ensure procedures started within the last 2 hours

3. **Telegram Notifications Not Received**
   - Verify bot token and chat ID are correct
   - Ensure the bot is added to the chat/group
   - Check network connectivity

4. **Too Many/Few Notifications**
   - Adjust `PROCEDURE_FILTER` to be more/less specific
   - Modify `MIN_DURATION_MS` to filter short procedures
   - For RUNNING procedures, adjust `RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES`

### Logging

The application logs to both console and `logs/snowflake_monitor.log`:
- **INFO**: General monitoring activities, heartbeats, notifications sent
- **ERROR**: Connection issues and failures
- **WARNING**: Non-critical issues, throttled notifications

Logs rotate automatically at 10 MB (keeps 3 backups, max 40 MB total).

### Database

The SQLite database `data/procedure_monitor.db` stores:
- Monitor sessions (with start/end times)
- Processed query IDs (per session)
- RUNNING procedure notification timestamps (for throttling)

You can safely delete this file to reset all monitoring history.

## License

This project is provided as-is for monitoring Snowflake procedure executions. Modify as needed for your environment.

## 📊 Performance & Resource Consumption

**Test scenario**: 24/7 monitoring, checks every 3 minutes (480 iterations/day), 15-20 procedures per check.

### Resource Consumption (30-day operation)

| Component | 24h Usage | 30-day Usage | Status |
|-----------|-----------|--------------|--------|
| **Snowflake Credits** | ~0.005 | ~0.15 | ✅ Negligible (~$0.30/month) |
| **Disk Space** | 2.3 MB | 42 MB | ✅ Capped (log rotation + cleanup) |
| **CPU** | 0.2% avg | 0.2% avg | ✅ Minimal |
| **RAM** | 10 MB | 10 MB | ✅ Constant |
| **Network** | 15.5 MB | 465 MB | ✅ <500 MB/month |

### Key Points

- ✅ **Near-zero Snowflake cost**: Metadata queries are free, heartbeat uses ~0.15 credits/month (~$0.30)
- ✅ **24/7 SSO session**: Heartbeat every hour keeps session alive without manual reconnection
- ✅ **Controlled storage**: Logs rotate at 10 MB (max 40 MB), database auto-cleanup (max 2 MB)
- ✅ **Lightweight**: <1% CPU, ~10 MB RAM
- ✅ **Scalable**: Can run indefinitely without degradation

### Optimizations

- **Session heartbeat**: `SELECT 1` every hour keeps SSO session alive (cost: ~0.00001 credits/hour)
- **Log rotation**: 10 MB per file, keeps 3 backups (40 MB total cap)
- **Database cleanup**: 7-day retention keeps DB at ~2 MB
- **Session tracking**: Prevents duplicate notifications across restarts
- **Throttling**: RUNNING procedures notify max once per configurable interval (default: 30 minutes via `RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES`)

## Support

For issues or questions:
1. Check the troubleshooting section
2. Review the log files for detailed error messages
3. Verify your Snowflake and Telegram configurations

Commit message:

Enhance README.md with GUI launcher instructions and details

README.md, after:

# Snowflake Procedure Monitor

A Python application that monitors Snowflake executions and sends real-time notifications via Telegram when procedures complete.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
snowflake_procedure_monitor/
├── 📁 src/                          # 🐍 Core Python application code
│   ├── main.py                      # Application entry point
│   ├── monitor.py                   # Core monitoring logic
│   ├── notifications.py             # Telegram notification handling
│   └── __init__.py                  # Package initialization
├── 📁 config/                       # ⚙️ Configuration files
│   ├── config.py                    # Environment variable handling  
│   ├── .env                         # Environment variables (not in git)
│   ├── .env.example                 # Environment variables template
│   └── __init__.py                  # Package initialization
├── 📁 sql/                          # 📊 SQL query files
│   ├── production_query.sql         # Production monitoring query
│   └── test_query.sql               # Test/development query
├── 📁 data/                         # 💾 Database and data files
│   └── procedure_monitor.db         # SQLite tracking database
├── 📁 logs/                         # 📝 Log files
│   └── snowflake_monitor.log        # Application logs
├── 📁 tests/                        # 🧪 Test and utility scripts
│   └── query_tester.py              # Query testing utility
├── 📁 docs/                         # 📚 Documentation
├── run_monitor.py                   # 🎯 Main execution script
├── launcher.pyw                     # 🖥️ GUI launcher (no console)
├── Start Monitor.bat                # ▶️ Double-click to start GUI
├── requirements.txt                 # 📦 Python dependencies
└── README.md                        # 📖 This documentation
```


## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- Snowflake account with appropriate permissions
- Telegram bot token and chat ID

### Setup Steps

1. **Clone or download the project**
   ```bash
   cd snowflake_procedure_monitor
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables**
   ```bash
   # Copy the example file
   copy config\.env.example config\.env
   
   # Edit config\.env with your actual values
   notepad config\.env
   ```

4. **Set up Telegram Bot** (if not done already)
   - Message @BotFather on Telegram
   - Create a new bot with `/newbot`
   - Get your bot token
   - Add the bot to your chat/group and get the chat ID

## Configuration

Edit the `.env` file with your settings:

```env
# Snowflake Configuration
SNOWFLAKE_USER=your_snowflake_username
SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT=your_account.region.cloud
SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD=                              # Only needed if using password authentication
SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE=your_database                 # Database to connect to
SNOWFLAKE_WAREHOUSE=your_warehouse               # Warehouse for connection
SNOWFLAKE_MONITOR_WAREHOUSE=your_warehouse       # Warehouse to monitor for procedures
SNOWFLAKE_AUTHENTICATOR=externalbrowser          # 'externalbrowser' (SSO) or 'snowflake' (password)

# Telegram Configuration
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=your_bot_token_from_botfather
TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID=your_chat_id_or_group_id

# Monitoring Configuration
CHECK_INTERVAL=60                                # Seconds between checks (default: 60, minimum: 60)
RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES=30            # Minutes between RUNNING notifications (default: 30, minimum: 1)
MIN_DURATION_MS=10000                            # Minimum procedure duration to notify in ms (default: 10000 = 10s)

# Query Configuration
QUERY_MODE=production                            # 'production' or 'test'
PROCEDURE_FILTER=CALL %                          # SQL LIKE filter (e.g., 'CALL MYDB.%%P_PROC_%%')
```

### Configuration Variables Reference

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `SNOWFLAKE_USER` | ✅ | - | Snowflake username or email |
| `SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT` | ✅ | - | Snowflake account identifier (e.g., `mycompany.us-east-1.aws`) |
| `SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD` | ❌ | - | Password (only if `SNOWFLAKE_AUTHENTICATOR=snowflake`) |
| `SNOWFLAKE_DATABASE` | ✅ | - | Database to connect to |
| `SNOWFLAKE_WAREHOUSE` | ✅ | - | Warehouse for the connection |
| `SNOWFLAKE_MONITOR_WAREHOUSE` | ✅ | - | Warehouse to monitor for procedure executions |
| `SNOWFLAKE_AUTHENTICATOR` | ❌ | `externalbrowser` | Auth method: `externalbrowser` (SSO) or `snowflake` (password) |
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` | ✅ | - | Telegram bot token from @BotFather |
| `TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID` | ✅ | - | Telegram chat/group ID for notifications |
| `CHECK_INTERVAL` | ❌ | `60` | Seconds between monitoring checks (minimum: 60) |
| `RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES` | ❌ | `30` | Minutes between re-notifications for RUNNING procedures (minimum: 1) |
| `MIN_DURATION_MS` | ❌ | `10000` | Minimum procedure duration (ms) to trigger notification |
| `QUERY_MODE` | ❌ | `production` | Query mode: `production` or `test` |
| `PROCEDURE_FILTER` | ❌ | `CALL %` | SQL LIKE pattern to filter procedures |

### Finding Your Snowflake Account Identifier

Your Snowflake account identifier should be in the format:
- `account_name.region.cloud_provider` (e.g., `mycompany.us-east-1.aws`)
- Check your Snowflake URL or contact your administrator

### Getting Telegram Chat ID

To find your chat ID:
1. Add your bot to the desired chat/group
2. Send a message to the bot
3. Visit: `https://api.telegram.org/bot<YOUR_BOT_TOKEN>/getUpdates`
4. Look for the `chat` -> `id` field in the response

## Usage

### Running the Monitor

```bash
# Run the main monitor
python run_monitor.py

# Alternative: Run from src directory  
cd src
python main.py
```

### GUI Launcher (Recommended)

For a more user-friendly experience, you can use the graphical launcher:

- **Double-click `Start Monitor.bat`** to launch the monitor with a visual interface
- No command line required
- Shows connection status, Snowflake Session ID, and a progress indicator
- Includes a "DETENER" button to stop the monitor cleanly

The GUI launcher (`launcher.pyw`) provides:
- Visual feedback during connection and monitoring
- Copy Session ID to clipboard with one click
- Minimize to taskbar support
- Clean shutdown handling

The monitor will:
1. Test connections to Snowflake and Telegram
2. Start monitoring for completed procedures
3. Send notifications for new procedure completions
4. Log all activities to `logs/snowflake_monitor.log`

### Stopping the Monitor

- Press `Ctrl+C` to gracefully stop the monitor
- The application will clean up connections and exit safely

### Example Notifications

When a stored procedure completes or is running, you'll receive a compact Telegram message:

**Successful completion:**
```
✅ SUCCESS P_DAILY_REPORT
⏱️ 2m 15s | Comp: 1,234ms
```

**Failed procedure:**
```
❌ FAILED P_DATA_LOAD
⏱️ 45s | Comp: 892ms
```

**Running procedure (in progress):**
```
🔄 RUNNING P_LONG_PROCESS
⏱️ 15m 30s | Comp: 2,100ms
```

**Status icons:**
- ✅ SUCCESS - Completed successfully
- ❌ FAILED - Failed execution
- 🔥 FAILED_WITH_ERROR - Failed with error
- 💥 FAILED_WITH_INCIDENT - Failed with incident
- 🔄 RUNNING - Currently executing
- ⏳ QUEUED - Waiting to execute

## Monitoring Logic

### Query Detection

The monitor queries `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.QUERY_HISTORY_BY_WAREHOUSE` and filters procedures based on:

1. **Warehouse**: Only monitors the warehouse specified in `SNOWFLAKE_MONITOR_WAREHOUSE`
2. **Procedure filter**: Matches queries against `PROCEDURE_FILTER` (SQL LIKE pattern)
3. **Status**: Captures `SUCCESS`, `FAILED`, `FAILED_WITH_ERROR`, `FAILED_WITH_INCIDENT`, `RUNNING`, and `QUEUED`
4. **Duration threshold**: Only notifies for procedures exceeding `MIN_DURATION_MS` (except RUNNING/QUEUED)
5. **Time window**: Looks back 2 hours from current time

### Procedure Name Extraction

The application uses a generic regex pattern to extract procedure names from any CALL statement:

```
CALL DATABASE.SCHEMA.PROCEDURE_NAME()  → PROCEDURE_NAME
CALL SCHEMA.PROCEDURE_NAME()           → PROCEDURE_NAME  
CALL PROCEDURE_NAME()                  → PROCEDURE_NAME
```

### RUNNING Procedure Monitoring

- Detects procedures currently executing (status = `RUNNING`)
- Calculates real-time duration using `DATEDIFF(SECOND, START_TIME, CURRENT_TIMESTAMP())`
- **Throttling**: Re-notifies every `RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES` (default: 30 min, minimum: 1 min)
- Prevents notification spam for long-running procedures

### Duplicate Prevention

- Uses **session-based tracking** with SQLite database
- Each monitor session gets a unique ID
- Processed query IDs are stored per session to avoid duplicates
- Old sessions and records are automatically cleaned up after 7 days

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Snowflake Connection Failed**
   - Verify your account identifier format
   - Ensure your user has proper permissions
   - For SSO: Check if external browser authentication is allowed
   - For password auth: Verify `SNOWFLAKE_AUTHENTICATOR=snowflake` and `SNOWFLAKE_PASSWORD` are set

2. **No Procedures Detected**
   - Confirm procedures are running on `SNOWFLAKE_MONITOR_WAREHOUSE`
   - Check `PROCEDURE_FILTER` matches your CALL statements
   - Verify `MIN_DURATION_MS` isn't filtering out short procedures
   - Ensure procedures started within the last 2 hours

3. **Telegram Notifications Not Received**
   - Verify bot token and chat ID are correct
   - Ensure the bot is added to the chat/group
   - Check network connectivity

4. **Too Many/Few Notifications**
   - Adjust `PROCEDURE_FILTER` to be more/less specific
   - Modify `MIN_DURATION_MS` to filter short procedures
   - For RUNNING procedures, adjust `RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES`

### Logging

The application logs to both console and `logs/snowflake_monitor.log`:
- **INFO**: General monitoring activities, heartbeats, notifications sent
- **ERROR**: Connection issues and failures
- **WARNING**: Non-critical issues, throttled notifications

Logs rotate automatically at 10 MB (keeps 3 backups, max 40 MB total).

### Database

The SQLite database `data/procedure_monitor.db` stores:
- Monitor sessions (with start/end times)
- Processed query IDs (per session)
- RUNNING procedure notification timestamps (for throttling)

You can safely delete this file to reset all monitoring history.

## License

This project is provided as-is for monitoring Snowflake procedure executions. Modify as needed for your environment.

## 📊 Performance & Resource Consumption

**Test scenario**: 24/7 monitoring, checks every 3 minutes (480 iterations/day), 15-20 procedures per check.

### Resource Consumption (30-day operation)

| Component | 24h Usage | 30-day Usage | Status |
|-----------|-----------|--------------|--------|
| **Snowflake Credits** | ~0.005 | ~0.15 | ✅ Negligible (~$0.30/month) |
| **Disk Space** | 2.3 MB | 42 MB | ✅ Capped (log rotation + cleanup) |
| **CPU** | 0.2% avg | 0.2% avg | ✅ Minimal |
| **RAM** | 10 MB | 10 MB | ✅ Constant |
| **Network** | 15.5 MB | 465 MB | ✅ <500 MB/month |

### Key Points

- ✅ **Near-zero Snowflake cost**: Metadata queries are free, heartbeat uses ~0.15 credits/month (~$0.30)
- ✅ **24/7 SSO session**: Heartbeat every hour keeps session alive without manual reconnection
- ✅ **Controlled storage**: Logs rotate at 10 MB (max 40 MB), database auto-cleanup (max 2 MB)
- ✅ **Lightweight**: <1% CPU, ~10 MB RAM
- ✅ **Scalable**: Can run indefinitely without degradation

### Optimizations

- **Session heartbeat**: `SELECT 1` every hour keeps SSO session alive (cost: ~0.00001 credits/hour)
- **Log rotation**: 10 MB per file, keeps 3 backups (40 MB total cap)
- **Database cleanup**: 7-day retention keeps DB at ~2 MB
- **Session tracking**: Prevents duplicate notifications across restarts
- **Throttling**: RUNNING procedures notify max once per configurable interval (default: 30 minutes via `RUNNING_PROCEDURE_THROTTLE_MINUTES`)

## Support

For issues or questions:
1. Check the troubleshooting section
2. Review the log files for detailed error messages
3. Verify your Snowflake and Telegram configurations
